"Small stories from the 100 selected stories of O Henry -> The Gift of the Magi -> A Cosmopolitan in a Cafe -> Between Rounds -> The Skylight Room -> A Service of Love -> The Coming of Maggie -> The Cop and the Anthem -> Memoirs of a Yellow Dog -> Ikey Schoenstein's Love Filter -> The Furnished Room -> The Last Leaf -> The Poet and the Peasant -> A Walk in a Foreign Land -> A Municipal Report -> Proof of the Pudding.""I'm sorry, but you did not provide any text to be translated. Please provide the text you want to be translated into Greek and I will be happy to assist you.""When Della returned home, her drunkenness gave a little room for speech and reason. She took out the hairpins, lit the gas, and began to work to repair the damage caused by the generosity added to love. This is always a huge task, dear friends - a titanic task. After forty minutes, her head was covered in small, tight curls that gave her energy. She looked at herself in the mirror for a while, carefully and critically. 'If Jim doesn't kill me,' she said to herself, 'before looking back at me, he will say I look like a dancer from Coney Island. But what could I do - oh! What could I do with one dollar and eighty-seven cents? At seven, the coffee was made and the pan was on the backside of the kitchen, warm and ready to cook the chops. Jim never hesitated. Della quadrupled the chain with the strap on her hat and sat on the corner of the table near the door she always enters through. Then she heard his footsteps on the stairs, far away, on the first floor, and she whitened for a moment. She had the habit of silently saying prayers for the simplest everyday things, and now she whispered, 'Please, God, make him think I'm still beautiful.' The door opened and Jim entered and closed it. The freezing seemed weak and very serious. The unlucky one was only two years old and had a family to support! He needed a new coat and had no gloves. Jim entered, motionless like a dog staring at pheasants. His eyes were fixed on Della with an expression he could not read, and it terrified her. There was no anger, surprise, rejection, fear, or any of the emotions he had prepared. He simply stared at Della with that strange expression on his face.

Della got up from the table and approached him. 'Jim, my love,' she explained, 'Don't look at me like that. I cut my hair and sold it because I couldn't live without giving you a gift for Christmas. They will grow back - you won't have a problem, will you? I had to do it. My hair grows fast.'""Of all those who give and accept gifts, such as they, the wisest are the Magi. Everywhere they are wisest. They are the Magi.""The final tune was "Dixie" and as the enthusiastic notes rang out, they were almost drowned out by a huge round of applause from almost every table. This impressive scene can be seen every night in many cafes in New York City. Enough whiskey has been consumed to explain it with theories. 

"I am ready to translate". 

"A piece of the Stone Age," Coglaii declared warmly. "We are all brothers - Chinese, English, Zulu, Patagonians and the people at the bend of the Cow River. One day, all this insignificant pride for the city or region or country of anyone will be eliminated and we will all be citizens of the world, as we should be". 

"But while wandering in foreign countries," I insisted, "does not your thoughts return to any point - to any favorite?" 

"No point," ER Coglan interrupted indifferently. "My existence, the Earth, the spherical, planetary pursuit of matter, slightly flat at the poles, known as the Earth, is my home. I have met many objective citizens of this country abroad.""I have seen men from Chicago sitting on a bridge in Venice on a moonlit night, boasting about their sewer canal. I have seen a Southerner receiving the King of England and, without crossing his gaze, giving the monarch the information that his grandmother on his mother's side had fallen in love with the Perkins of Charleston when she married. I knew a New Yorker who was kidnapped for ransom by some Afghan thieves. His people sent the money and he returned to Kabul with the agent. 'Afghanistan?' the locals said to him through an interpreter. 'Isn't that where the giant Buddha statues are?' 'Hey, buddy,' he replied wearily, 'I'm a Baptist. Bugs Bunny is about as far as I go back."

"The man with the red tie" (that was my cosmopolite), "got heated about things which he declared he knew of, did not permit the existence of the pedestrian, and cursed the islands that forever interrupt the series of squares and vistas that were intended to make the city beautiful." "But this man," said I to myself, "is a citizen of the world - a cosmopolite." "He is," said my friend with the red tie, "a citizen of the United States - a Manhattanite."